------------------------
--- 8 Cars per Trainer - 
--- Version 1.20 -------
------------------------

Contents:

A. Introduction
+-1. About 8 Cars per Trainer
+-2. Known Bugs and Problems
+-3. Getting Started
B. Menu Commands
+-1. Park Menu
+-2. Money Menu
+-3. Weather Menu
+-4. Landscape Menu
+-5. Custom Objects Menu
+-6. Staff Menu
| +-1. Handyman Submenu
| +-2. Mechanic Submenu
| +-3. Security Submenu
| +-4. Entertainer Submenu
| +-5. Caterer Submenu
| +-6. First Aid Submenu
| +-7. Park Guide Submenu
| +-8. Researcher Submenu
| +-9. Banker Submenu
| +-10. Advertising Submenu
+-7. Rides Menu
+-8. Guests Menu
+-9. Miscellaneous Menu

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
-Part A: Introduction
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--A-1: About 8 Cars Per Trainer

8 Cars per Trainer is a trainer for the commercial game RollerCoaster Tycoon 2 which is 
copyrighted by Chris Sawyer and distributed by Infogrames.  This program is in no way 
affiliated with or recognized by Chris Sawyer, Infogrames, etc. and they do NOT support 
it in any way.

With this trainer you can perform numerous functions while the game is running.  Use of 
this program may cause your game to crash, losing your current game status.  Be sure to 
save before using any function(s) due to the unpredictability of this type of program. As 
always with these types of programs, use at your own risk.

This trainer has been tested on the U.S. (ver 2.01.028) and the 
demo (ver 2.01.036p) versions of RCT2 and works properly on those versions.
It may or may not work on other versions; I can't test versions I
don't have so I don't know it will work on others.

Copyright 2003, John Anderson

--A-2: Known Bugs and Problems

Some bugs or other errors have become evident while testing this program:
-When adding a custom message, using some icons (for instance, coins) and clicking on 
the icon when the message is displayed will cause a error trapper.
-The fix breakdowns function doesn't fully work, but I left it "active", so don't use it yet.

--A-3: Getting Started

To install the trainer, extract all the files within the zip into one folder.

Before starting the trainer, you must start RCT2 first.  This way 
the functions will work properly. 

When you want to exit the game screen, press <alt+tab> (or 
<alt+esc>) to activate the trainer window.  This will switch the 
window focus to the trainer.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
-Part B: Menu Commands
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--B-1: Park Menu

These are commands for editing park status, and other 
miscellaneous functions:

Open - 
	Opens park

Close -	
	Closes park

Invert Land Ownership -
	Sets unowned to owned, and visa versa. Good for editing
	unowned land while making it possible to
	restore previous ownership

	Using the "Ignore Rights & For Sale" 
	option preserves the status of
	for sale land and land with 
	construction rights for sale/owned.

Set unowned to rights -
	Obtains contruction rights for unowned land

Own All Land -
	Own all the land that is currently unowned and unpathed
	(Construction rights are obtained for pathed land)

De-own Border Land - 
	De-own the land at the edge of the park.  This is  
	mainly for when you are in the scenario editor and aren't 
	allowed to change ownership of the border.

{Restore/Remove} Border Fence -
	Restore or remove the park 
	border fence from the game map,

Change Guest Entry Points -
	Change where guests enter the game map. 
	This function takes some practice, but lets you
	make guests enter at any spot on the map.  This is
	good if you screwed up in the Scenario Editor
	or for making your guests "teleport" instantly to the 
	center of the map. 

Reset Date -
	Resets the date to March 1, Year 1. This was a classic 
	function on nearly every RCT1 trainer.

Add Custom Message -
	Display a custom-made message on screen.  This function is
	really good for releasing parks with a welcome/intro message.
	
	You can set the icon for the message, but usew caution.
	Some icons cause the game to crash is the related object
	associated with the icon cannot be displayed when clicked on.
	"Safe" icons include "award", "graph", and "crowd of people"

Clear All Messages -
	Clear the current message and the list of "recent messages".

Quit Trainer -
	Quit 8 Cars Per Trainer.  You can also click the close button
	on the title bar or press alt+F4.
  
--B-2: Money Menu

Here are commands for editing financial status:

Use Money - 
	Activate the usage of money in game. 

	Note: if you started out with a free scenario,
	you must manually set all prices in shops, etc.

Don't Use Money - 
	De-activate the usage of money in game. 

	Note: guests still pay if the item/ride/entry prices aren't 
	set to free.  Since new guests will enter with zero cash,
	this may cause a problem of guests not riding/shopping.


Add 5,000/50,000/500,000 Cash -
	Increases your parks funds by the specified amount 
	of units. The values are rounded.

Subtract 5,000/50,000/500,000 Cash -
	Decreases your parks funds by the specified amount 
	of units.  The values are rounded.  

--B-3: Weather Menu

These functions are for changing the weather:

Make Freezing - 
	Sets current temperature to 32F and weather to partly cloudy 

Make Cool -
	Sets current temperature to 46F and weather to partly cloudy 

Make Sunny -
	Sets current temperature to 73F and weather to clear skies 

Make Hot -
	Sets current temperature to 99F and weather to clear skies 

Start Shower -
	Sets current temperature to 61F and weather to light rain

Start Heavy Rain -
	Sets current temperature to 61F and weather to heavy rain

Start Thunderstorm -
	Sets current temperature to 61F and weather to heavy rain

Cycle Weather -
	Not implemented yet

--B-4: Landscape Menu

Functions for changing the terrain of your park:

Load Terrain BMP -
	Loads a terrain "elevation map" from a Windows bitmap
	(BMP).

	This trainer offers a feature to load a terrain into 
	the game from a Windows bitmap, representing height 
	levels through the color levels (or indexes).  This is a 
	fairly "risky"  function so, like swimming without a 
	lifeguard  you should use caution and proceed at your 
	own risk  and know what you are doing (also  save 
	whatever you have done since there's no reversing this).

	For this function to work you need a 256-color 
	(grayscaled preferred) squared (width=height),  
	uncompressed Windows bitmap (BMP extension) that has  
	the same dimensions as the current game  map size.  
	If it is not all of the  above it will not load.  
	Also, it is recommended that the  current game mode be 
	the Scenario Editor with no scenery or park entries on 
	the map (just keep the default map).  It /can/ work in 
	the regular game but all that is altered is the surface 
	data, so that the buildings and other objects may be 
	either buried or elevated from the land.

 	To load into the Scenario Editor, set the map size to 
	the  dimensions of the bitmap image you are going to 
	load.  Next, switch to the trainer window (alt+tab or 
	alt+esc) and select  "Landscape"->"Load Terrain BMP" 
	and a file menu should show up. Select the desired bitmap 
	file and press OK.  Wait until  the hourglass mouse cursor 
	has changed back to the arrow and check back in RCT2.  
	The terrain should be loaded.  There is  a sample 
	128x128 bitmap of a Six Flags Magic Mountain terrain  
	I derived out of a USGS terrain file.  It demonstrates 
	what  can be done with this function.

 	This is a beta-level function and I haven't tested it  
	thoroughly so use caution!  I'm still determining the 
	details of the  map data and trying to see if I can 
	improve the slope generation  algorithm I used.  I 
	haven't as yet experienced any crashes using  this 
	function but I can't guarantee it will not ever happen.

	Color Levels (Indexes) to RCT Height Units: 
	In RCT2, 2 color levels is equal to 1 height unit  
	(14 color level being 0 in RCT2 height units).

Cap land at max height -
	Caps (limits) all land heights to the 
	maximum height allowed for editing.
	Use this function when you used a function
	that raised land so high you can't edit it in game.

Adjust Land Mover Size -
	Used to adjust the size of the size of the land, water,
	or scenery removal tool.

--B-5: Custom Objects Menu

This was going to be for loading custom objects on the fly in the 
game but may be removed in favor of a file-based utility.

Load Object DAT File -
	Not implemented yet

--B-6: Staff Menu

Handyman Submenu -
	see B-6.1

Mechanic Submenu - 
	see B-6.2

Security Submenu -
	see B-6.3

Entertainer Submenu -
	see B-6.4

Caterer Submenu -
	see B-6.5

First Aid Submenu -
	see B-6.6

Park Guide Submenu -
	see B-6.7

Researcher Submenu -
	not yet implemented

Banker Submenu - 
	see B-6.9

Advertising Submenu -
	see B-6.10

Fast Staff -
	This speeds up your staff.     

Fire All - 
	Not yet implemented

---B-6.1: Handyman Submenu 

These are functions specific to handymen:

Empty Trash -
	Not yet implemented

Water Gardens -
	Water all the gardens in the park.

Mow Grass -
	Mow all the grass in the park

Clean Paths -
	Not yet implemented

Repair Vandalism -
	Not yet implemented	
		

---B-6.2: Mechanic Submenu 

Functions related to mechanics:

Renew Rides - 
	Sets all rides in the park to new (built this year)

Repair Rides -
	Repair all rides in the park.  Doesn't work yet.

Make Rides Reliable -
	Sets the reiability of all rides to 100%

---B-6.3: Security Submenu 

These are security guard-type functions:

Pacify Vandals -
	Removes the "vandal" status from any guest and sets their 
	happiness to 100%

---B-6.4: Entertainer Submenu 

Make Guests Happy - 
	Set the happiness of all guests to 100%

Give Guests Balloons -
	Hand out free balloons to all your guests.  The balloons
	will be different colors.

---B-6.5: Caterer Submenu 

Catering functions to feed your guests.

Give Guests Drinks -
	All guests' thirst level will become 0

Give Guests Food -
	All guests' hunger level will become 0

---B-6.6: First Aid Submenu

First-aid functions for your guests health:

Heal Nausea -
	All nauseated guests will become healthy

Vitalize Guests - 
	All guests' energy will reach maximum level

---B.6.7: Park Guide Submenu 

Guide functions to help your guests around the park

Guide Guests to Restrooms -
	Guests' restroom urgency will go to zero

Hand Out Park Maps -
	All guests get free maps

Give Guests Umbrellas -
	All guests get free umbrellas

---B-6.8: Researcher Submenu

No functions yet

---B-6.9: Banker Submenu - 
	
	Bank-related functions go here
		
	Give All Guests 100 Cash - 
		not yet implemented

	Give All Guests 1,000 Cash - 
		not yet implemented
	 
---B-6.10: Advertising Submenu -

	These are functions related to advertising

	Promote Gentle Rides -
		Guests will be willing to ride any ride below 
		their maximum preferred intensity level,
	Promote Thrill Rides -
		Guests will be willing to ride any ride above  
		their mininum preferred intensity level,
	Promote All Rides - 
		Guests will [within reason] ride
		any ride.

--B-7: Rides Menu

Edit Ride Stats - 
	This will open a dialog box that will let you edit
	individual rides. It's safest to close a ride before using this menu.

	Control Items explained:
		Ride# - The index of the ride (each ride has an index from 0 to 254)
		--Actions--
		Fix Breakdown - Fix the ride if it currently broken down (not yet implemented)
		Renew - Make the ride brand new (built this year)
		Make Reliable - Set relibbility of ride to 100%.
		--Special Actions-- 
		Raise/Lower - Raises track up or down by an offset
			(doesn't affect stations)
		Bury - Cover sections of track with 
			land
		Excavate - Take track out from
			underground
		Zero Clearance:
			Make certain pieces of track 
			"zero clearance", meaning you 
			can build through them.
		--Options--
		Track Type - The ride's track type or the base ride type.
		Train Type - The ride's vehicle/shop type.
		Operating Mode - The operating mode of the ride
		Color Scheme (for special actions) -
			The track color scheme to perform a special action on.
			No other track pieces besides the 
			track painted with this color
			scheme will be affected by speial actions.
		Height Offset (for Raise/Lower) - 
			The height offset for the raise/lower 
			special action.  Negative values lower the
			ride, positive raises it.
		Launch Speed - Ride's # of launch speed or rotations  
		# Circuits - The amount of times the ride travels through 
			its course.
		Lift Speed - Chain lift speed
		Age (years) - Ride's age in years.
		# Trains - How many trains will run.
		# Cars - Number of cars per train.

	You must select a ride first before setting values.
	Press "Apply" to set the ride and keep editing,
	"OK" to apply and exit, and "Cancel" to abort the edit.

10 Minute Inspections - 
	not yet implemented
Uniform Item Pricing - 
	not yet implemented

--B-8: Guests Menu

Edit Guest Stats - 
	Not yet implemented

Trams -
	Not yet implemented

Remove All Guets -
	Not yet implemented

Reset Guest Numbers - 
	Not yet implemented

All-Around Guests - 
	Maximizes all guests' happiness, energy, and high intensity preference;
	minimizes their nausea, bathroom need, thirst, hunger, and low inensity preference.

--B-9: Miscellaneous Menu

Remove Floating Objects - 
	not yet implemented

Zero all Clearances
	Sets all park clearances to 0,  neaning you can build through 
	everything.

Restore Clearances:
	not yet implemented
-----------------------------------------------
Last updated 3:48 PM 4/15/03


